Brussel Sprout Salad

Notes and amendments by Nick

https://www.halfbakedharvest.com/shredded-brussels-sprout-bacon-salad/

Shredded Brussels Sprout Bacon Salad and Warm Cider Vinaigrette
This shredded brussels sprout bacon salad has quickly become one of my favorites. It's quick, festive, and so delicious. Shredded brussels sprouts, nutty manchego cheese, toasted hazelnuts, and juicy pomegranates, all tossed with a warm cider vinaigrette that's sweet and tangy. 

Prep Time
20minutes mins
Cook Time
10minutes mins
Total Time
30minutes mins
Calories: 715kcal Author: Tieghan Gerard


Ingredients
6 cups shredded brussels sprouts (about one 12 ounce bag)
1 1/2 cups (130 grams) grated manchego or parmesan cheese
1/2 cup toasted hazelnuts or pecans, roughly chopped
	* toast raw pecans for 5-10 minutes at 350 F
1 1/2 cups pomegranate arils
	* 1 large pomegranate will yield this amount
		* score into quarters and pop arils under water to prevent juice flying everywhere
6 thick cut slices bacon, chopped
	* what the hell, add 7 strips of bacon

Vinaigrette:
1/3 cup extra virgin olive oil
1 medium shallot, thinly sliced
2 tablespoons apple cider vinegar
1 tablespoon apple butter or fig preserves
1 tablespoon fresh thyme leaves
1 teaspoon fresh orange zest
kosher salt and black pepper
pinch of crushed red pepper flakes

Instructions
1. In a large salad bowl, combine the shredded brussels sprouts, cheese, hazelnuts, and pomegranate arils.
2. Cook the bacon in a large skillet over medium heat until crisp. Drain onto a paper towel. Wipe the skillet clean.

3. To make the vinaigrette. Heat the olive oil in the same skillet used to cook the bacon over high heat. When the oil shimmers, add the shallots, cook until fragrant, 2-3 minutes. Remove from the heat, let cool slightly. Add the apple cider vinegar, apple butter, thyme, and orange zest. Season with salt, pepper, and crushed red pepper flakes.
4. Pour the vinaigrette over the salad, tossing to combine. Top the salad with bacon. Serve warm or at room temperature. 
Nutrition
Calories: 715kcal