#Sponge Cake with Cranberry Curd

By King Arthur Flour

https://www.kingarthurflour.com/recipes/sponge-cake-with-cranberry-curd-recipe

Yields one 8" or 9" layer cake

###Ingredients

Cranberry curd

    298g fresh or frozen cranberries
    198g granulated sugar
    juice and grated rind (zest) of 1 orange
    1/8 teaspoon salt
    1 small sprig fresh rosemary (optional)
    85g unsalted butter
    2 large eggs
    3 large egg yolks

Cake <- to make a good sized 4 layer cake, increase all ingredients by 50%

    6 large eggs, separated, at room temp
    198g superfine sugar (e.g., Baker's Special Sugar)
	* divided: ~50 g for egg whites, ~150 for batter
    2 teaspoons vanilla extract
    1/4 teaspoon salt
    120g King Arthur Unbleached Cake Flour

Whipped cream

    454g heavy cream
    28g confectioners' sugar
    1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Sugared cranberries

    149g granulated sugar
    113g water
    50g fresh or frozen cranberries
    superfine sugar (e.g., Baker's Special Sugar), for dredging

Alternate icing:

Lemon Glaze (this is enough for a light topping on the bottom layer and a larger topping on the upper layer so that it dribbles down slightly along the 8x8 cake edges)
* 2.5 cups powdered sugar
* zest of one full lemon
* 4 tablespoons freshly squeezed lemon juice
* adjust consistency with water and more powdered sugar.

###Instructions

1.    To make the curd: Place the cranberries, sugar, orange juice and zest, salt, and rosemary (if using) in a medium saucepan and bring to a boil over medium heat. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the berries pop and start to break down, abut 10 minutes.

2.    Remove from the heat, remove and discard the rosemary sprig, and purée with an immersion blender or in a food processor. Strain the purée into a clean medium saucepan.

3.    Whisk in the butter, eggs, and egg yolks. Cook over medium-low heat, stirring constantly, until the mixture thickens and coats the back of a spoon.

4.    Remove the curd from the heat and transfer it to a bowl. Cover with plastic wrap that touches the surface, and refrigerate until cold.



***For the cake:

This also perfectly fits two 8x8 square pans.


5.    To make the cake: Preheat the oven to 350°F. Grease your choice of two 8" (at least 2" deep) or 9" round pans. Line the bottoms with parchment, then butter and flour the parchment.


6.    Combine the egg yolks and 3/4 cup of the sugar in a large bowl. Using an electric mixer, beat on medium-high speed until the mixture becomes pale and thick, 3 to 5 minutes. Stir in the vanilla and salt.

7.    In a clean bowl with a clean whisk attachment, beat the egg whites until soft peaks form. Gradually add the remaining 1/4 cup sugar, beating on medium-high speed until the whites are stiff and glossy, about 2 minutes. Fold the yolk mixture, one third at a time, into the whites.

8.    Sift the flour over the mixture and fold gently until incorporated. Sift the flour in parts to maximize proper incorporation

9.    Divide the batter evenly between the pans. Bake for 20 to 25 minutes, until the edges just begin to pull away from the pan and the center springs back when lightly touched. Pour the batter slowly and mix any un-incorporated flour with the spatula in the pan.

	* when using Costco large eggs, the final batter weighs ~600 grams. So split each tin with ~300 grams of batter each

	* This took 20 minutes at the laurel hollow gas oven (no fan)
	* Dix Hills, using two 8x8 square tins with 300 grams of batter each: 15-16 minutes. Check at 14-15 minutes

10.    Remove the cakes from the oven and let cool in the pans on a rack for 5 minutes. After 5 minutes turn the layers out of the pans, peel off the paper, and return to the rack to finish cooling right side up.


***Whipped Cream


11.    To make the whipped cream: In a large mixing bowl, beat the heavy cream with the confectioners' sugar and vanilla until stiff peaks form.

12.    To make the sugared cranberries: Combine the sugar and water in a small saucepan and bring to a boil, cooking until the sugar dissolves. Add the cranberries and return to a boil; simmer for 1 minute.

13.    Remove from the heat and, with a slotted spoon, take the cranberries out of the syrup and roll them in superfine (Baker's Special) sugar until coated. Place on a rack to dry.


***Assemble

14.    To assemble: Split the cake layers horizontally and place half of one on a serving plate. Spread with 1 cup cranberry curd.

15.    Place the other half of the layer on top and spread with another cup of curd. Repeat with half of the second layer. Top with the remaining curd and cake, then frost the top and sides with whipped cream. Garnish with the sugared cranberries.

16.    Store the cake, covered in the refrigerator, for up to four days. Freeze for longer storage. 

