#Corn Cookies

By Christina Tosi

Modified by Nick for a normal person's kitchen.

Makes 20 to 32 cookies

225 g butter, at room temperature OR 16 tablespoons (2 sticks)
	* for vegan option, replace with 225 g of shortening (try to use butter-flavored vegetable shortening)
300 g sugar OR 1 1/2 cups
	* optional alternative: 200 g of white sugar and 100 grams of light brown sugar
1 extra large eggs + 1 tablespoon whole milk
	* for Bob's Red Mill Egg Replacer use 2x the amount for one egg: 2 tbsp egg replacer + 4 tbsp water. Otherwise dough will be too dry
	* Note: usually the large eggs I buy are not large enough, so 1 tablespoon of whole milk makes the cookies a bit more moist
225 g flour OR 1 1/3 cups
45 g corn flour OR 1/4 cup 
65 g freeze-dried corn powder OR 2/3 cup
3 g baking powder OR 3/4 teaspoon
1.5 g baking soda OR 1/4 teaspoon
6 g kosher salt OR 1 1/2 teaspoons


Note: Freeze dried corn powder was made by buying freeze dried corn kernels and then pulverizing them in a food processor until fine. This processed corn be stored in an airtight container until use. I have used Augason Farms Freeze Dried Sweet Corn 1lb No. 10 Can with pretty good success.

### Directions
Combine the butter and sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment and cream together on medium-high for 2 to 3 minutes. Scrape down the sides of the bowl, add the egg, and beat for 7 to 8 minutes. If creaming the ingredients in a food processor, then it might take 1/2 the amount of time--be diligent in scraping down the sides regardless.

Reduce the mixer speed to low and add the flour, corn flour, corn powder, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Mix just until the dough comes together, no longer than 1 minute. Scrape down the sides of the bowl. If using a food processor, then pulse until just combined then turn out onto parchment-lined top and bring together; do not over-mix for fear of excess gluten formation.

Using a 2 3/4-ounce ice cream scoop (or a 1/3-cup measure), portion out the dough onto a parchment-lined sheet pan. Pat the tops of the cookie dough domes flat. Wrap the sheet pan tightly in plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 1 hour, or up to 1 week. Do not bake your cookies from room temperature-- they will not bake properly.

**Alternatively (what I do since I don't have a lot of freezer space): Pour out cookie dough onto a length of parchment paper and mold into a loaf (~7.5 cm (3 inches) wide and 4.5-5 cm (1.5-2 inches) in depth). Wrap with the parchment paper and refrigerate in an airtight container (sealable plastic bag) in the fridge for several days until use: chop off =>1 cm (~ 1/2 inch segments and lay onto parchment-lined baking sheet and cook as below.** Modify the dimensions of your loaf to your preferences.

Alternatively I freeze the cookie dough for 30 minutes in the stand mixer bowl, then portion them out into balls and freeze them overnight. It seems like the best flavor comes out when you chill the dough in the refrigerator for at least ~2 hours (preferably overnight) and then freeze them.

Heat the oven to 350°F.

Arrange the chilled dough a minimum of 4 inches apart on parchment (I have crowded my loaf dough a bit more than this ~3 inches)- or Silpat-lined sheet pans. Bake for 12-20 minutes depending on cookie size and oven. May need to rotate tray halfway through for even baking. The cookies will puff, crackle, and spread. They should be faintly browned on the edges yet still bright yellow in the center; give them an extra minute if not. You can also cook them for longer if you want them slightly more caramelized--this is what I do.
	* Dix Hills (standard electric oven) = 17-20 (18-19 worked best) minutes for a single sheet (rotate pan halfway through) on the middle rack
	* if cooking more than 6 cookies on a single tray, the cook time might need to increase to 20-22 minutes
	* For small cookies, it takes ~13 for an electric, non-fan oven, it took 11-12 minutes on for my fan gas (speed bake) range at Laurel Hollow. If using the pizza stone and NO fan, it takes 16-19 but cooks more evenly.

Cool the cookies completely on the sheet pans before transferring to a plate or to an airtight container for storage. At room temp, the cookies will keep fresh for 5 days; in the freezer, they will keep for 1 month.
