Easy Homemade Marzipan or Almond Paste
	* modified by Nick

https://www.daringgourmet.com/how-to-make-marzipan-almond-paste/

Prep Time 5 mins
Total Time 5 mins

Servings: 6 Makes 13-14 ounces
Calories: 281kcal
Author: Kimberly Killebrew, www.daringgourmet.com


Ingredients (metric)
    168 g very finely ground blanched almond flour/meal or blanch, grind and dry your own almonds - I recommend the bought almond meal to ensure it's finely ground and sufficiently dry
    180 g powdered sugar
    Sugar-free and diabetic alternative: use 1 1/2 cups Swerve Confectioner Sweetener
    2 teaspoons quality pure almond extract
    1 teaspoon quality food grade rose water (optional)
    1 egg white (vegan: use egg substitute 3+ tablespoons corn syrup (see Note))
	*or 2-3 teaspoons of water, added one at a time (until dough comes together)--this is what I do


Ingredients (imperial)

    1 1/2 cups very finely ground blanched almond flour/meal or blanch, grind and dry your own almonds - I recommend the bought almond meal to ensure it's finely ground and sufficiently dry
    1 1/2 cups powdered sugar
    Sugar-free and diabetic alternative: use 1 1/2 cups Swerve Confectioner Sweetener
    2 teaspoons quality pure almond extract
    1 teaspoon quality food grade rose water (optional)
    1 egg white (vegan: use egg substitute 3+ tablespoons corn syrup (see Note)
	* or 2-3 teaspoons of water, added one at a time (until dough comes together)--this is what I do

---

Instructions

1.    Place the almond flour and powdered sugar in a food processor and pulse until combined and any lumps are broken up. Add the almond extract and rose water and pulse to combine. Add the egg white or water and process until a thick dough is formed (add to desired consistency). If the mass is still too wet and sticky, add more powdered sugar and ground almonds. Keep in mind that it will become firmer after it's been refrigerated.

	** Note, if not adding rose water, just add distilled water slowly until dough comes together in a smooth ball in the food processor (do this anyway if the dough is too rough)

2.    Turn the almond marzipan out onto a work surface and knead it a few times. Form it into a log, wrap it up in plastic wrap and refrigerate.

3.    Will keep for at least a month in the refrigerator or up to 6 months in the freezer. Bring to room temperature before using in any recipe.

4.    Makes 13-14 ounces of marzipan or almond paste

Notes
* Egg white is what is traditionally used. If you're concerned about raw egg you can use pasteurized egg whites in the carton instead. If you absolutely must (though I don't recommend it), you can use a few tablespoons of corn syrup instead.* Marzipan vs. Almond Paste - the difference: Almond paste is softer and is used in baked goods. Marzipan is firmer and is used in making candies/chocolates or as fondant for cakes. Marzipan also uses rose water. To adjust this recipe according to what you're using it for, follow this recipe as instructed for almond paste (I still include the rose water because it tastes amazing), or add an extra 1/4 cup or more of ground almonds/almond meal until you reach a firmer consistency (one that you can roll out with a rolling pin without it sticking).
Calories: 281kcal | Carbohydrates: 36g | Protein: 6g | Fat: 13g | Sodium: 9mg | Potassium: 8mg | Fiber: 2g | Sugar: 30g | Calcium: 59mg | Iron: 1.1mg

