Meatball recipe

First:
Heat oil in cast iron skillet (I used medium heat on electric range--which is the “5” setting). Oil should be ~1/4 inch deep.

Mix 3 cups of Regular bread crumbs with 1 3/4 cup milk, this forms a panade and supposedly helps to make the meatballs more tender and moist. Make sure bread crumbs and soaked up all the milk.

In large bowl mix:

3 lb ground turkey
2 bundle of chopped green onions, diced
1 tablespoons of Tory Cochers original Cajun seasoning
1/2 tablespoon salt
1/2 teaspoon MSG
1/2 to 1 teaspoon black pepper
1 large egg
3 cups regular unseasoned bread crumbs
1-1.75 cups milk


Alternate homemade spice mix (from Allrecipes https://www.allrecipes.com/recipe/149221/cajun-spice-mix/): 
		2 tsp salt
		2 tsp garlic powder
		2.5 tsp paprika
		1 tsp black pepper
		1 tsp onion powder
		1 tsp cayenne pepper
		1 heaping tsp oregano
		1 heaping tsp thyme
		1 tsp red pepper flakes (optional)


Have a small dish of olive oil to help with the next steps

Blend mix together with one hand that is coated in some olive oil (always keep a hand clean in case your phone rings or something). Don’t over-mix but get everything consistently blended.

Using a small spoon, dab with olive oil (and re-apply to your hand as necessary). Take small portions of the mix and round off, place on a large cutting board or tray.

The olive oil treatment on the spoon and hand will minimize the meat sticking.

Repeat this until the entire mix is used up. I can get around 27 meatballs.

The oil in the pan should be hot by now--drop in a scrap of the meat and see if it sizzles to make sure. It should read at least 350 degrees (set oven to 6 and that should be a good balance of heat and maintenence when meatballs are placed in).
	* try settings 4-6 on your electric stove and depending on pan type

Gently place the meatballs in the oil one-at-a-time using the spoon. Fit as many as you can in the skillet while not over-crowding.

Let the meatballs cook for ~4-6 minutes. Flip once to cook other side. Don’t over-cook but get a nice brown crisp (makes for good texture).

Remove with tongs and place on a sheet with lots of paper towels. Drain and pat down to remove excess oil.

Check internal temp is 160 degrees as the balls will continue cooking once removed (safe temp is 165 based on FDA)


Oven-cooking method

Pre-heat oven to 400 degrees F and form balls on foil-covered half sheet pans (I need two for this volume).

Place into oven for 25+ minutes or internal temp is 165. Rotate trays from top to bottom halfway through for more even cooking.

Enjoy!


If baking in a casserole dish, place meatballs with some space in between each and fill the dish with marinara sauce so the meatballs are covered at least half way. Cover, place in bottom 3rd of oven and bake at 400 degrees F for 30-35 minutes. 