Brown Sugar Meringues

Modified from King Arthur Flower Recipe:

https://www.kingarthurflour.com/recipes/pavlova-recipe


Meringue

    106g egg whites (this took 4 large eggs from H-mart and was ~118 g)
    pinch of salt
    1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
    198g Very fine sugar--consider blitzing in food processor or even attempt with confectioner sugar (icing sugar)
	For brown sugar pavlova: 132 grams white sugar and 66 grams light brown sugar
    *Optional: 1 teaspoon vanilla, maple, almond extract
    *Optional:     1 tablespoon cornstarch

Note:
	* I tried this with the liquid from canned sweet corn kernels and it was not a replacement for aquafaba. I put it in the fridge overnight to see if that would do anything.
		


Topping

    340g heavy or whipping cream
    28g confectioners' sugar
    1 teaspoon vanilla extract
    283g fresh fruit (strawberries, blueberries, sliced kiwi, etc)


Instructions

1.    Preheat the oven to 200°F. Place a flat sheet of parchment paper on a large baking sheet. 

		* Note: my gas oven at Laurel Hollow only went down to 265 F, so I tried that for 45 minutes then turning off the oven. It seemed like some of them got more brown, but those could have been due to being at the corners of the oven. It resulted in perfectly good meringues when doing the small pipped ones!

		* it can take 1.75-2 hours to fully cook the cookies on an overcrowded single tray at 200 F (to the point where they have some color to them). If in a hurry, increase temp to 225 or higher and check back in more frequently

2    In a large bowl, beat the egg whites with the cream of tartar on medium-high speed until frothy.

3    Blitz the white sugar, brown sugar, and corn starch in a food processor (see note below). Then combine with egg whites gradually with the mixer running. The mixture will thicken and turn glossy. Beat for about 1 more minute or until stiff peaks. Add in vanilla during the process.

	* I found blitzing the sugars and starch was not necessary, just mix them together well with a fork and slowly add into the mixer.

4.    Pipe out meringues with a nozzle of your choice, I like using the 4-B one from Wilton

5.    Bake for 1 hour to 1 hour 45 minutes, or until you see the meringues turning just slightly tan--this indicates they will be cooked enough. Turn off the oven and leave the door closed. Leave the meringue in the oven for at least 1 hour, or as long as overnight (better).

	* Note, for a full tray of 4-B piped meringues, I baked for 1 hour 45 minutes at the Dix Hills oven before the meringues started to color up slightly.

	*Note: if you come back in the morning and the meringues don't seemed as cooked through as you'd like (too pale, too chewy and moist), then just cook them in a pre-heated 200 degree F oven again for another 20-30 minutes and check for tan color to form.

6.    Up to an hour before serving, you can combine the heavy cream with the confectioners' sugar and whip until thickened. Add the vanilla. Pile the whipped cream into the center of the cooled meringues and top with sliced fresh fruit.

7.    Store refrigerated for up to 1 day; once filled, the meringue will soften quickly. 

