Palmier Recipe from Nick

Folding instructions: https://www.meilleurduchef.com/en/recipe/puff-pastry.html


3 cups AP flour (360 grams)
1 tsp salt
1 cup cold water (237 mL)
3 sticks of butter (24 tablespoons; 340 grams)
	* using higher fat-content butter is better (Kerrygold or some European butter)

Sugar mix
2 cups sugar
pinch of salt

Note:
If using a store-bought puff pastry, make sure it is fully defrosted and then start at step 8.


1. Mix flour and salt. Add water and combine until dough is just come together. It will be shaggy. Do not over-mix: you don't want to form gluten.

2. Store dough, covered, in the fridge for 20-30 minutes.

3. Place butter between 2 sheets of parchment paper. Flatten out butter into a square-ish sheet that is ~1-1.5 cm thick. I do this by pounding it with a rolling pin. Doing this makes the butter more pliable which is important for the lamination. Place back into fridge until dough has finished resting.

4. Liberally flour surface and rolling pin. Place dough in center and roll out into a large square; big enough to place the butter square within while still able to fold the dough edges completely over the butter, sealing the dough and fully encapsulating the butter.

5. flour the top of the dough-butter sandwich. Tap out the butter gently to disperse it and then roll out the whole thing into a larger square or rectangle (~2 cm thick max).

6. Perform a letter fold (1/3 placed onto the other third). Tap and roll out. Perform another letter fold BUT DO NOT ROLL IT DOWN. Wrap and place into the fridge for 20-30 minutes minimum.

* you can do a single book fold or two more letter folds to finish the palmiers
7. Flour surface, pin, and dough again. Roll out so that a letter fold can be achieved or a book fold (4 folds). I like to chill it once more before rolling out the final time (20-30 minutes). If using the book fold, tap dough to disperse flour, then roll out so the dough can be cut into 3 equal-ish segments for making the palmiers. These segments can be ~2 cm thick max, but they don't need to be too thin since you will roll them out further with the sugar mix.

If performing a letter fold, then roll it out and perform another letter fold and then roll that out. Perform a final letter fold not rolling it out and placing it in the fridge for the final rest (20-30 minutes), roll out the dough for the final time (this will be 3 total letter folds, which will create 55 layers (27 butter and 28 dough layers--this is what is used for a classic French croissant)

8. Place 2 of the segments back in the fridge (on top of parchment paper). Clean the surface and place a handful of the sugar mix onto the surface, spacing it out so the dough segment rests atop nothing but some sugar.

9. Cover the top of the dough with more sugar. Roll out the dough gently in both directions, starting to form a rectangle. Then flip the dough over, covering the top with additional sugar. Roll out to final thickness (~0.5-1 cm).

10. Fold the dough from the long edges (book fold at the very least or roll them up to the center). Form it so that it is snug. Then use a sharp knife and cut them into 1-2 cm sections. Separate the cookies and place them into a freezer bag and then immediately into the freezer.

11. Repeat the sugaring and rolling with the other two sections. Placing all the cookies into the freezer. Wait until they have completely frozen before cooking them as below.
	* Note: I have never baked them thawed, so I don't know how well it will work

12. Pre-heat oven to 450 degrees F.

13. Place palmiers onto parchment-lined baking tray, spaced out enough so that they can spread.

14. Bake for 7-9 minutes. Then flip the palmiers (I use a regular spoon and spatula) and bake again on the other side for 5-7 minutes, or until there is a nice golden-brown to brown caramelization on both sides of the cookies. Take them out and immediately place them onto a rack to cool.

	* For Dix Hills oven, it took the Kerrygold butter palmiers 7 minutes for the first half, then 6-7 minutes for the second.
		* these used a final book fold for the dough lamination

15. Eat or store in the fridge, covered, until you want more. They will get soggy in heat/humidity unless they are really baked out thoroughly, so be wary about serving them at a hot cookout or something.