=-0Brown Sugar Pavlova

Modified from King Arthur Flower Recipe:

https://www.kingarthurflour.com/recipes/pavlova-recipe


Meringue

    106g egg whites (this took 4 large eggs from H-mart and was ~118 g)
    pinch of salt
    1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
    198g Very fine sugar--consider blitzing in food processor or even attempt with confectioner sugar (icing sugar)
	For brown sugar pavlova: 132 grams white sugar and 66 grams light brown sugar
    1 tablespoon cornstarch
    *Optional: 1 teaspoon vanilla
		


Topping

    340g heavy or whipping cream
    28g confectioners' sugar
    1 teaspoon vanilla extract
    283g fresh fruit (strawberries, blueberries, sliced kiwi, etc)


Instructions

1.    Preheat the oven to 200°F. Prepare a sheet of parchment paper by tracing a 9" round circle on it and flipping it over onto a baking sheet. You should still be able to see the circle outline through the paper.

		* Note: my gas oven at Laurel Hollow only went down to 265 F, so I tried that for 45 minutes then turning off the oven. It seemed like some of them got more brown, but those could have been due to being at the corners of the oven. It resulted in perfectly good meringues when doing the small pipped ones!
	
		*consider dusting parchment with some corn starch to minimize sticking after baking
		*not necessary if properly cooked and dried out.

2    In a large bowl, beat the egg whites with the cream of tartar on medium-high speed until frothy.

3    Blitz the white sugar, brown sugar, and corn starch in a food processor (see note below). Then combine with egg whites gradually with the mixer running. The mixture will thicken and turn glossy. Beat for about 1 more minute or until stiff peaks. Add in vanilla during the process.

	* I found blitzing the sugars and starch was not necessary, just mix them together well with a fork and slowly add into the mixer.

4.    Spread the meringue on the parchment inside the circle mounding the outside edges higher. Can also pipe them individually for bit-sized morsels.

		*consider spreading a base of the meringue and then piping the remainder around the edge: this could be faster and neater if you are not practiced at dolloping.

5.    Bake for 1 hour-1.5 hours. Turn off the oven and leave the door closed. Leave the meringue in the oven for at least 1 hour, or as long as overnight. The pavlova will color slightly from white to light tan (small cracks are normal).

	*Note: I kept it in for 2 hours after baking and it was fine. I removed it and stored it, covered, in the fridge before adding the whipped cream the following morning. I also kept in in the oven overnight after it finished baking at ~10:30pm.

6.    Up to an hour before serving, combine the heavy cream with the confectioners' sugar and whip until thickened. Add the vanilla. Pile the whipped cream into the center of the cooled pavlova and top with sliced fresh fruit.

7.    Store refrigerated for up to 1 day; once filled, the meringue will soften quickly. 

