Apple Pie (macerated apples)

Tasty

https://www.buzzfeed.com/michelleno/guide-to-perfect-apple-and-pumpkin-pie-crust-recipe

Modified by Nick (12/8/2024)

PERFECT PIE CRUST dough **This makes 1x10 inch pie crust** Double for covered pies.

INGREDIENTS (makes one, 10 inch pie crust)
2 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for dusting (240 grams)
Pinch of kosher salt
10 tablespoons (1.25 sticks) unsalted butter, diced and chilled
2 large egg yolks
4 tablespoons ice water or vodka or mix of both
	*recent test: 1:5 or 1:6 tablespoons vodka:ice water
	* in practice I need more liquid, closer to 1 cup of liquid for two pie crusts, so this would be ~1/4 cup water to 3/4 cup vodka



APPLE PIE (MACERATED)

Makes 1 10-inch pie
INGREDIENTS

5 pounds Granny Smith apples (I needed about 4 lbs and I still had just a few extra slices)
2 cup brown sugar
	* originally 1 cup
1/2 teaspoon fine salt
	* originally 1/4
3 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/3 cup fresh lemon juice (~2 good sized lemons, squeezed and strained)
3.5 tablespoons cornstarch, divided
3 tablespoons water
4 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 premade pie crusts, rolled out to ⅛-inch thick



PREPARATION (DOUGH)

Sift the flour and salt together into a large bowl.

Using only your fingertips, pinch the cubes of butter into the flour, breaking up the butter as you go, until no large lumps remain. Shake the bowl to force the large chunks of butter to the surface. If you have warm hands or this is taking too long, you can chill the bowl into the refrigerator for 20 minutes to cool back down--you don’t want this to be greasy at all!

Mix the egg yolks and ice water together in a small bowl with a fork until evenly combined. Add the liquid to the flour mixture, reserving ¼ or so in case you don’t need all of it--you don’t want the pastry to be too wet. Quickly mix everything together with a dinner fork until the dough just starts to come together. Add more liquid to the driest parts of the dough if needed. The dough is ready when it holds together in a ball when squeezed in your palm.

Transfer the dough to a clean work surface and bring the dough together. You don’t want to overwork the dough, but you need to work it enough that it is a cohesive disc with no real cracks or very dry bits.

Wrap the dough disc in plastic wrap and chill for 30-60 minutes minimum. The dough can sit in the fridge for up to 4 days, otherwise double wrap in plastic or in a zip top bag and store in the freezer for up to 3 months.

Lightly flour your work surface and unwrap a disc of chilled dough. Flour the top of the dough. Using a rolling pin, push down on the dough, giving it a quarter turn every few smushes, to spread the dough evenly and ensure it doesn’t stick to the surface. Start to roll out the dough, continuing to turn. If any cracks form, smush them back together. Roll out the dough to a circle about ⅛-inch thick.



PIE (MACERATED)

PREPARATION

Peel and thinly slice the apples (keep the apples in a bowl of lemon water as you go to prevent browning).

In a large bowl, toss the apples with the brown sugar, salt, cinnamon, lemon juice, and half of the cornstarch. Once the apples are well coated, let sit and macerate for 30-60 minutes, stirring occasionally.

Preheat the oven to 400˚F (200˚C).

Transfer the apples to a colander set over a medium bowl and let drain for about 15 minutes, until all of the liquid is drawn out.

Transfer the liquid released from the apples to a small pot over low heat.

In a small bowl, mix the rest of the cornstarch and the water to make a slurry. Add the slurry to the apple liquid and quickly stir to incorporate. Bring to a boil, then add the butter and stir until melted. Immediately remove from the heat and pour over the apples, stirring to coat.

Gently drape 1 rolled-out pie crust in a 10-inch pie dish.

Lay the apples in the pie crust, making sure they are flat and the rounded edges face out in order to fit as many apples as possible in the crust. Pour any leftover liquid from the bowl over the apples.

Top with the other rolled-out pie crust. Trim the excess dough from the edges, press the 2 crusts together to seal, then fold the edges under. Crimp the edges,

Brush all over with egg wash and sprinkle with the sanding sugar. Use a paring knife to cut a few vents in the top for steam to escape.

Bake for 40-45 minutes, until golden brown.

	* for dix hill oven with a shallow 9-inch pan, it took ~50-60 minutes until the crust got nicely golden brown
	* After the 1 hour mark, the bottom of the crust was still a little light, so maybe cover the pie with aluminum foil at the 50-60 mark and bake for another 10-20 minutes

Let cool for at least 1 hour, ideally 3-4 hours, then slice and serve.


