Crispy smashed potatoes

From https://www.recipetineats.com/crispy-smashed-potatoes/


Ingredients
Potatoes - choose:
700g / 1.4 lb small potatoes (12 - 14) (Note 1)
1 - 1.2kg / 2 - 2.4lb medium potatoes (6 - 8)

Cooking:
1 tbsp salt (for boiling)
30g / 2 tbsp unsalted butter , melted
1 tbsp olive oil
3/4 tsp salt (for sprinkling)
1/4 tsp black pepper
Finely chopped parsley , optional garnish


Cook potatoes: Bring a pot of water to the boil, add 1 tbsp salt. Cook potatoes until soft - small ones should take around 20 to 25 minutes, medium ones might take 30 minutes. It's ok if the skin splits. Alternatively, steam or microwave them.

Preheat oven to 200°C/390°F (180°C fan).
	* note: I do 450F

Steam dry: Drain the potatoes and let them dry in the colander for 5 minutes or so.

Smash! Place on the tray then use a large fork or potato masher to squish them, keeping them in one piece. Thin = crisper. Thicker = fluffier insides. (Both good!) More nubbly surface = better crunch!

Steam dry again: Leave on the tray to steam dry for 5 minutes or so - makes them crispier!

Drizzle: Drizzle with butter, then olive oil. Sprinkle with salt and pepper.

Bake: Bake for 45 minutes (small potatoes) to 55 minutes (medium) or until deep golden and crispy. Do not flip!

Serve hot, sprinkled with parsley if desired.


Recipe Notes:
1. I've used a variety of potatoes over the years and this works great with all types, including baby potatoes. High starch potatoes will yield a fluffier inside, whereas waxy potatoes are a bit less fluffy but are sort of creamy. You'll love both!
You can make these with smaller or medium potatoes. Small ones - size of a golf ball or smaller - will come out crisper (like finger food, you can pick them up), whereas larger ones have the same crispiness on the surface but you get more fluffy potato on the inside because they don't get squished as thinly. I like them both ways!
2. Flavourings: If you add garlic or dried herbs into the butter, it has a tendency to burn so you end up with black bits and they can be bitter. If you're really keen for garlic flavour, use the side of your knife to smash 2 cloves so they burst open. Place in small saucepan with butter and melt, then leave to infuse with garlic flavour. Discard cloves and proceed with recipe.
For herbs, add a generous amount (dried or fresh) into the pot of boiling water so the potatoes get infused with herb flavour. Discard herbs and proceed with recipe.
3. Nutrition per potato, assuming 12 potatoes.