Puff Pastry

360 g or 3 cups AP flour (plus extra for dusting)

1.5 cups Butter (24 tablespoons or 3 sticks)
	* 340 grams
1 tsp salt (consider adding more
	* if making
1 cup water (~270g)
Optional:
1/2 of lime juice

Make dough:
Mix
360 grams or 3 cups of flour
1 tsp of salt
Optional lime juice
Add water bit by bit
Form dough and roll into ball--will spring back after thumbing. Rest in fridge for 15-20 min (I have rested it for ~30-45 minutes before and it turned out fine).

Flatten dough by rolling until around 1-1.5 cm thick

KEEP THICKNESS OF DOUGH CONSISTENT THROUGHOUT PROCESS TO ENSURE CONSISTENT LAMINATIONS

Laminations:
Place chilled butter onto dough
	Can roll out cold butter between parchment paper and place into fridge prior to layering onto dough
	* it is important that the dough is pliable, but chilled. This can be achieved by hammering the butter with the rolling pin into a 1.5-2 cm thick square/rectangle. This will make it pliable even after a 20 minute chill in the fridge
1st lamination step
Fold sides to cover or cover butter over 2/3 span of dough. Fold over uncovered third onto butter-covers portion. Then fold butter-covers portion over that fold.
Initially tap out with rolling pin to equalize butter.
Then roll out until about 1 cm thick.
Fold into thirds again--keep loose. REPEAT: DO NOT ROLL DOWN. Wrap in plastic wrap and place in fridge.
This creates a twice double-folded pastry (as opposed to classic).
Chill for 20 minutes in fridge

2nd lamination step
Take out chilled dough and roll down with pin until 1 cm thick.
Fold into thirds again--keep loose as before.
Wrap in plastic wrap and chill another 20 minutes.
This creates a four-times double-fold pastry (as opposed to classic)

3rd step and beyond
Take out and roll down to 1 cm thick.
Stop here or repeat as many times as necessary, but don’t over-laminate!
	Can push through over-lamination by making sure initial flour and butter are very cold and lamination step incubations make for very cold dough: don’t let butter seep into dough because these two layers must be kept separate in order for lamination to occur.

Divide excess pastry into fractions.
Sandwich between wax paper and place in freezer for longer-term storage (but maybe don’t keep for so long).


