Beef Noodle Stew
Aka slow cooker beef burgundy
Aka Beef Nassau


For Instant Pot

Ingredients

1.5-2.5 lbs Top or Eye Round
	* I've used 2-2.5 lbs of chuck roast in the past, cut into ~2 inch cubes. But this makes the final product quite fatty
8 cups of beef stock or broth (I use several teaspoons of Better than Boullion or 2 store-bought cartons)
1small bag of baby carrots
1 small bag of frozen peas
1 large clamshell of button mushrooms, sliced
1 white onion, diced
6-9 cloves garlic (one whole head of garlic)
~2-3 tablespoons tomato puree
spices: cardamom, coriander, salt, pepper (as much as you want)
	* Save salt for seasoning later, especially if using Better than Bouillon stock, since it can be very salty
Pappardelle (from Target; dried, ~8-10 oz)--Add as much as you'd like at the ned
Corn starch for thickening (~2 tbsp)

* optional
	1 pack of large cut bacon
		* this makes it incredibly savory and heavy
	Bourbon (small amount to degaze pan)

Steps

Prepare beef stock per instructions (or just use cartons)

Add some beef stock to Instant Pot and whisk in Demi gas if using Demiglas.

If using bacon Chop bacon into large cubes. Fry in their own oil. Drain off oil and put into Instant Pot. I usually cook the bacon the night before and use the fat to fry the chuck roast.

Pan sear the eye/top round or chuck roast on 4 sides to get nice crust and fond. I use medium high heat.

Transfer meat to instant pot.

Reduce heat to medium and add onion to pan and cook down for a couple minutes. Then add garlic. Cook for a couple more minutes. Add in spices and tomato paste. Cook down for a couple more minutes.

Add in a small amount of bourbon or whiskey. Just enough to deglaze the pan. Cook down for several minutes until little moisture is left.

Add everything in pan to Instant Pot.

Cover everything in broth. I usually need 8 cups of liquid total.

Cook on low for 8-9 hours minimum.
	* can do medium or high temp slow cook for shorter cooking time (4-6 hours).

Skim off fat once slow cook is done if necessary

Increase heat (sauté on high). Add carrots, mushrooms, and peas. Season with salt and pepper to taste.

Cook down for 30-60 minutes. The beef will be shreddable after ~30 minutes. You want to reduce ~1-2 cups of the broth off (or as much as you prefer). Add as many noodles as you want. Cook until complete. Add corn starch slurry for sauce consistency preference.

Can freeze for later once completely chilled.