Ingredients


**Jam is not essential for this, but could be added to increase sweetness or used as a topping
*For the jam (can be made ahead of time and refrigerated, but let sit for a while at room temp prior to spreading)
200g (7oz) raspberries (single small clamshell will be almost exact)
250 (9oz) jam sugar 

	*Homemade jam sugar, for 250 g of regular sugar, I added 8g of fruit pectin (258 g total of regular sugar and pectin combined). This equates to multiple of ~31.3x sugar to pectin

**For the sweet shortcrust pastry
225g (8oz) plain flour, plus extra for dusting 
150g (51⁄2oz) butter, chilled (150 g butter =~11 tablespoons)
25g (1oz) icing sugar
2 tablespoons cold water
1 large free-range egg, beaten

	*Make sure not to roll too thin
	*Remember to dock pastry when in tin.

	*experimental notes: ran out of AP flour, so did one shortcrust pastry with ~180 g of AP flour and the remaining ~45-55 g was with bread flour.

**For the filling
150g (51⁄2oz) butter, softened (150 g butter =~11 tablespoons) (take out 5 minutes before start of flash bake of pastry, should be ready by time it is cool)
150g (51⁄2oz) caster sugar (I blitz regular sugar in food processor for a while)
150g (51⁄2oz) ground almonds (I buy sliced almonds and blitz in food processor)
1 large free-range egg, beaten

**For the icing (to be piped on lightly)
100g (101⁄2oz) icing sugar
1/3 tsp almond extract (can go to 1/2 tsp if piping thinly) or 1/2 tsp lemon extract
~1 tablespoons of cold water
food coloring gel

**For white chocolate ganache icing (to be pipped lightly or dolloped)

Use equal parts (weight) white chocolate and heavy cream.

100 g white chocolate
100 g heavy cream


Directions
1. For the jam, put the raspberries in a small, deep-sided saucepan and crush them using a masher. Add the sugar and bring to the boil over a low heat until the sugar has melted. Increase the heat and boil for 4 minutes. Remove from the heat and carefully pour into a
shallow container. Leave to cool and set. This can be made well ahead of time (1-2 weeks)
	
	*Electric range:
		*Initial heat = 2
		*boiling heat = 5
	

2. For the pastry, measure the flour into a bowl and rub in the butter using your fingertips until the mixture resembles fine breadcrumbs. Stir in the icing sugar. Add the egg and 2 tablespoons cold water, mixing to form soft dough. Can do in a food processor. Let rest for at least an hour and can roll out afterwords (skip chill step in next step if you do this)
3. Roll out the dough on a lightly floured work surface to the thickness of a pound coin (NOT TOO THIN). Line a 9in fluted flan tin and transfer to the fridge to chill for 30 minutes. MAKE SURE TO DOUGH IS NOT OVER-STRETCHED TO FIT THE PAN: PINCH ALL CORNERS SO THAT THERE ARE COMFORTABLY SNUG: NO TENSION ANYWHERE OTHERWISE PASTRY SIDES WILL FALL.
4. Preheat the oven to 390F.
5. Line the pastry case with non-stick baking paper. DOCK PASTRY. FILL with baking beans or uncooked rice. Bake blind for 15 minutes or until rim is light golden brown, then remove the beans and paper and cook for a further 5 minutes to dry out the base. Set aside to cool a little (25-30 minutes) before adding the filling. SET OUT BUTTER AT BEGINING OF THE BLIND BAKE: IT WILL BE SOFT BY THE TIME THE PASTRY COOLS AND IS TIME TO MAKE THE FILLING.


6. ***OPTIONAL***: For the filling, spread the base of the pastry case with 4 tablespoons of raspberry jam.

7. Cream the butter and sugar together until pale and fluffy. Add the ground almonds, egg and mix together. Spoon the mixture into the pastry case and smooth the surface using a palette knife.
8. Reduce the oven temperature to 355F and bake for 25–35 minutes, until golden-brown and
a skewer inserted in the centre comes out clean. Remove from the oven and leave to cool
completely in the tin.


9. For the icing, sift the icing sugar into a bowl. Stir in the almond extract and about 3
tablespoons cold water to make a smooth, fairly thick icing. Color the icing. Spoon the pink icing into a small piping bag fitted with a small plain nozzle. 
10. When the tart has cooled completely, pipe or drizzle on the icing to a sparse but even coating.


10. For white chocolate ganache icing, heat the the cream in a pan at medium heat until simmer. Let simmer for 3-4 seconds and remove and pour over white chocolate. Mix with wooden spoon until smooth and incorporated. Let sit until it reaches room temperature and whip by hand or with mixer until light and fluffy. Pipe over pastry in fine lines or in dollops: don't be shy about adding a good amount as the almond is very strong so the ganache will not come through otherwise.

Tips/Techniques
For this recipe you will need a 9in fluted flan tin, baking beans, piping bag fitted with small plain nozzle and a few cocktail sticks. Any leftover jam can be kept in a sterilized and sealed jar for up to 6 months, or in a tub in the fridge for 3 weeks.