###Lemon Curd Tart

###This can also be used for other citrus fruits--see below for ratio changes
Ina Garten from Food Network

Modified by Nick


*Ingredients For the tart shell:
12 tablespoons (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, plus more for greasing, at room temperature
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour 
Pinch salt

Alternative pastry crust:
**For the sweet shortcrust pastry (taken from frangipane tart (bakewell) recipe)
225g (8oz) plain flour, plus extra for dusting 
150g (51⁄2oz) butter, chilled (150 g butter =~12 tablespoons)
25g (1oz) icing sugar
2 tablespoons cold water
Optional: 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract (vanilla pairs well with lemon apparently)
1 large free-range egg, beaten

	*Make sure not to roll too thin
	*Remember to dock pastry when in tin.

*For the lemon curd:
4-6 lemons, at room temperature
and 1/2 cup lemon juice from lemons
1 1/2 cups sugar (???350 grams???)
1/4 pound (~115 g) (1 stick) unsalted butter, at room temperature
4 extra-large eggs, at room temperature 
1/2 teaspoon salt

*For a clementine curd:
6 clementines, at room temperature--will make enough for 1/2 cup of juice and requisite zest
1 1/2 cups sugar (???350 grams???)
1/4 pound (~115 g) (1 stick) unsalted butter, at room temperature
4 extra-large eggs, at room temperature 
1/8 teaspoon salt



**Directions For the tart shell:

1. Mix the butter and sugar together in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a paddle attachment until they are just combined. Add the vanilla. In a medium bowl, sift together the flour and salt, then add them to the butter-and-sugar mixture. Mix on low speed until the dough starts to come together. Dump onto a surface dusted with flour and shape into a flat disk. Press the dough into a 10-inch-round or 9-inch-square false-bottom tart pan, making sure that the finished edge is flat. 

2. Chill until firm.

3. Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.

4. Butter 1 side of a square of aluminum foil to fit inside the chilled tart and place it, buttered side down, on the pastry. Fill with beans or rice. Bake for 20 minutes. Remove the foil and beans, prick the tart all over with the tines of a fork, and bake again for 20 to 25 minutes more, or until lightly browned. Allow to cool to room temperature.

---

**Alternative tart shell direction (frangipane tart recipe)

1. For the pastry, measure the flour into a bowl and rub in the butter using your fingertips until the mixture resembles fine breadcrumbs. Stir in the icing sugar. Add the egg and 2 tablespoons cold water, mixing to form soft dough. Can do in a food processor. Let rest for at least an hour and can roll out afterwords (skip chill step in next step if you do this)
2. Roll out the dough on a lightly floured work surface to the thickness of a pound coin (NOT TOO THIN). Line a 9in fluted flan tin and transfer to the fridge to chill for 30 minutes. MAKE SURE TO DOUGH IS NOT OVER-STRETCHED TO FIT THE PAN: PINCH ALL CORNERS SO THAT THERE ARE COMFORTABLY SNUG: NO TENSION ANYWHERE OTHERWISE PASTRY SIDES WILL FALL.
3. Preheat the oven to 390F.
4. Line the pastry case with non-stick baking paper. DOCK PASTRY. FILL with baking beans or uncooked rice. Bake blind for 15 minutes or until rim is light golden brown, then remove the beans and paper and cook for a further 5 minutes to dry out the base. Set aside to cool a little (25-30 minutes) before adding the filling. SET OUT BUTTER DURING THE LAST 5 MINUTES OF THE BLIND BAKE: IT WILL BE SOFT BY THE TIME THE PASTRY COOLS AND IS TIME TO MAKE THE FILLING.

	* for syosset gas range, I needed to blind bake for 20-25 minutes (I do 25 minutes) and then uncovered bake for 10-15 minutes for frozen or chilled tart shells (13 minutes is a sweet spot for me)


---


**For the lemon curd:
5. Remove the zest of the lemons (or other citrus) with a vegetable peeler or zester, being careful to avoid the white pith. Squeeze the lemons (or citrus) to make 1/2 cup of juice and set the juice aside. Put the zest in a food processor fitted with a steel blade. Add the sugar and process for 2 to 3 minutes, until the zest is very finely minced. In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, cream the butter with the sugar and lemon zest. Add the eggs, 1 at a time, and then add the lemon juice and salt. Mix until combined.

6. Pour the mixture into a 2-quart saucepan and cook over medium-low heat (3.5-4 setting on electric range with my aluminum saucepan or 2-3 on gas range in Syosset), stirring CONSTANTLY, until thickened, about 10 minutes. The lemon curd will thicken at about 175 degrees F, or just below a simmer. Remove from the heat.

7. Fill the tart shell with warm lemon curd and allow to set at room temperature.